# Continuous Applications with Structured Streaming Python APIs in Apache Spark

This project shows how one can train a model using Apache Spark and MLlib then deploy that model using Spark's structured streaming for making predictions as a continunous application.

This application will use a credit card fraud use case to demonstrate how MLlib models and structured streaming can be combined, to constitutue a continunous application. In our hypothetical use case, we have some historical data of credit card transactions, some of which have been identified as fraud. We want to train a model using this historical data that can flag potentially fraudulent transactions coming in as a live stream. We then want to deploy that model as part of a data pipeline which will work with a stream of transaction data to identify potential fraud hotspots in a continunous manner.

The dataset has been collected and analysed during a research collaboration of Worldline and the Machine Learning Group (http://mlg.ulb.ac.be) of ULB (Université Libre de Bruxelles) on big data mining and fraud detection. More details on current and past projects on related topics are available on http://mlg.ulb.ac.be/BruFence and http://mlg.ulb.ac.be/ARTML

Please cite: Andrea Dal Pozzolo, Olivier Caelen, Reid A. Johnson and Gianluca Bontempi. Calibrating Probability with Undersampling for Unbalanced Classification. In Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Data Mining (CIDM), IEEE, 2015

A copy of this data and its licence are available at https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/ml-team-public-read/credit-card-fraud.zip


## This dataset has 3 columns we'll be using.

pcaVector: The PCA transformation of raw transaction data. The main idea of principal component analysis (PCA) is to reduce the dimensionality of a data set consisting of many variables correlated with each other. Put simply, it is a method of summarizing data.

amountRange: This column is a value between 0 and 7 and tells us the approximate amount of a transaction. The values correspond to 0-1, 1-5, 5-10, 10-20, 20-50, 50-100, 100-200, and 200+ in dollars.

label: 0 or 1, whether a transaction was fraudulent.


We want to build a model which will predict the label using the pcaVector and amountRange data. We'll do this by using a ML pipeline with 3 stages:

1) A OneHotEncoder to build a vector from our amountRange column. It is a process by which categorical variables are converted into a vector form that could be provided to ML algorithms to do a better job in prediction.
2) A Vector assembler to merge our pcaVector & amountRange vector into our features vector. It is a transformer that combines a given list of columns into a single vector column. It is useful for combining raw features and features generated by different feature transformers into a single feature vector, in order to train ML models like logistic regression and decision trees
3) A GBTClassifier to serve as our Estimator. It's a learning algorithm for classification. It supports binary labels, as well as both continuous and categorical features.

Please note that this project has originally been carried out in Databricks.